\section{Received Signal Strength Indication}\label{sec:theoryRssi}
\acrfull{rssi} is 2D model based position technology indication on the signal
strength between a sender and receiver.  It's a less complex method than 3D
model based technologies such as Time of Arrival, Time Difference of Arrival or
Angle of Arrival that require a proper time synchronization between the sender
and receiver.  This opens up for easier software implementations and can reduce
the complexity of the signal measurement.  The technology became popular because
of this but also for its high accuracy, low cost and low power consumption.
\cite{IndoorFingerprintPositioning2017} 

\bigskip

The technology can be divided into three categories; \begin{itemize} \item
Trilateration \item Approximate Perception \item Scene Analysis
\cite{IndoorFingerprintPositioning2017} \end{itemize}

\subsection{Trilateration}\label{sec:theoryRssiTrilateration} Trilateration
is a positioning technique where three or more senders and receivers converts the signals
into spatial distances.  This is used to create radius of circles and where all
the circles intersect with each other is where the device is located.
\cite{IndoorFingerprintPositioning2017} 

\subsection{Approximate Perception}\label{sec:theoryRssiApproxPerception} In
approximate perception the signal from the strongest base station is the
positioning criterion.  This technique has a low positioning accuracy and to
make it more exact researchers has used a cluster of antennas.  This cluster is
then placed at a know location and will improve the
accuracy.\cite{IndoorFingerprintPositioning2017} 

\subsection{Scene Analysis}\label{sec:theoryRssiSceneAnalysis} Scene analysis
is the most used technique for indoor positioning.  It uses fingerprint matching
(\cref{sec:theoryFingerprint}) and does not require any information of where the
base stations is located.  The positioning is done with the signal strength from
multiple base stations at a given reference point.  Together with a fingerprint
data structure the reference point will act as a localization point for the
positioning system.\cite{IndoorFingerprintPositioning2017} 

\bigskip

Measurements taken with \acrshort{rssi} values can be used to take signal
fingerprints to build up a radio map database for indoor
localization.\cite{DevelopmentMobileIndoor2017} 
